 Places:

Dema:

    Dema is a city on the continent of Trench. It is surrounded by a large circular wall and has nine towers in the middle. It is also split into nine districts with each district being ruled by its own Bishop. The outside of the city is a necropolis, full of neon gravestones. The city is a very depressive place. The album ‘Blurryface’ details life in Dema. Citizens are not allowed to leave the city. Dema also has VIP Citizens who receive special treatment from the Bishops. It is sometimes referred to as the ‘Sacred Municipality of Dema’.

Trench:

    Trench is the ‘inbetween’ it’s the land outside of Dema. Parts of it resemble Iceland. It is where the Banditos have a camp/base. There may be a part of it that is a desert, that also may or may not have a population of cheetahs.

Voldsøy:

    An island off the shore of Trench. Has a large population of Neds. The island is a reference to the 'island of violence' in the song migraine.

Paladin Strait:

    The bit of ocean between Voldsoy and Trench.

Port Vial:

    A port on the shore of Trench, controlled by Dema.

Characters:

Clancy:

    Clancy is the character played by Tyler. He is a resident of Dema who is famous for writing letters detailing his life in the city. He is also famous as a rebel and member of the Banditos who makes rebellious music. He spent an amount of time a prisoner of Dema being forced to make propaganda, but he has since escaped and is back to being a rebel. He is the only non-bishop who can use psychokinesis.

The Torchbearer:

    This is Josh’s character. He is a member of the Banditos, and even their leader. His character is very mysterious and has the power to appear elsewhere to guide people without even being physically there.

Nico/Blurryface:

    Nico, full name Nicholas Bourbaki (sometimes also known as Blurryface) is the leader of the nine bishops. He is the scariest.

Keons:

    Keons was Clancys bishop. He is described as more kind and caring than the other bishops. He conspired with Ned, the Torchbearer and Clancy to betray Dema and use Trash to free Clancy and get him to Voldsoy. He was killed by the other bishops before being possessed via Psychokinesis by Clancy and starting a fire in dema.

Trash:

    Trash the dragon is a sea dragon that is speculated to have been long dead. His body was temporarily possessed via Psychokinesis by Keons to attack the submarine carrying Clancy. He represents creativity.

Ned/Neds:

    Ned the individual is a cute little creature living somewhere in a cozy cabin in Trench. His species (who are each individually also known as Ned) as a whole largely resides on Voldsoy. Their antlers can grow and be removed. Once removed they give Clancy the ability to do psychokinesis. Ned stands for ‘Neural Expansion Device’.

The Bishops:

    There are nine of them. Blurryface is both Nico and also all of the bishops (and the city) at the same time. Same concept as God being the father and the trinity in Christianity. Clancy theorises they may be immortal beings using psychokineses to swap from body to body. They all borrow their names from Blurryface lyrics. (For example: Sacarver is from ‘She’s a carver’). Their names are as follows: Nico, Keons, Andre, Lisden, Reusdro, Sacarver, Nills, Vetomo and Listo.

The Banditos:

    The group of rebels who aim to escape/overthrow Dema. They wear yellow tape as the bishops are unable to see the color.

Clancys Rebellion:

    A rebellion started by Clancy inside of Dema. They wear red/orange tape to reclaim the color and make themselves known to the bishop.

Concepts/Events

Vialism:

    The religion celebrated in Dema. The end goal of the religion is for one to take their own life.

The Glorious Gone:

    Those who have committed to vialism and ended their lives. They each get a neon gravestone around the city. This is where their bodies are buried. Their bodies are referred to as ‘available vessels’ for psychokinesis.

Neon Gravestones:

    The gravestones that surround Dema forming a necropolis. This is where the glorious gone are buried. The gravestones themselves can be pulled apart to make weapons.

Psychokinesis/Seizing:

    An art/ritual the bishops use to possess dead bodies (usually of the glorious gone) others (but likely just Clancy) can use it via antlers from Neds. We don’t know for sure, but Clancy theorises that perhaps the bishops can use it on living beings, and that it had been used on him at points. We know for a fact that they can use it on living vultures at the very least.

Smearing:

    This is what happens when an individual is captured by a bishop. It causes black marks on the persons neck and hands. Could potentially just be another form of psychokinesis.

The Annual Assembly of the Glorified:

    This is an annual meeting of all of the VIPs of Dema. One year it was held on a submarine outside of the city.

The Feature Performance Event:

    This was a live event performed by Clancy while he was a prisoner and making Dema propaganda. The event was hosted by two bishops possessing dead bodies using Pyschokinesis. The bodies slowly deteriorated over the course of the event. Clancy played one song (Choker) and spent the whole time daydreaming himself performing other music with the Torchbearer. This is also an example of an FPE (initials often re-used and referred to in twenty one pilots lore).

Failed Perimeter Escape:

    This is what people who try, and fail, to escape Dema are categorised as. Another example of FPE. Other uses of FPE in the lore include 'The Few, The Proud, The Emotional'(in Fairly Local) and 'Fuel, Petrol, Etc.' (from the Livestream).

Dmaorg.info:

    A website Clancy used to spread letters and media about Dema. The bishops found the site and took it down for a while, but Clancy has since got it back up following his escape.

'East is Up':

    A code phrase used amongst Banditos to help identify each other. This phrase is used because the way out of Dema is in the east side of the wall. This is represented by the 'pitchfork' symbol seen on the Trench album cover. It was later repurposed by Clancy into the Scaled And Icy logo, also on that albums cover.

'Sahlo Folina':

    What the Banditos cry out when they are in need of help.

Vultures:

    There is a large population of Vultures in Dema. For the Banditos, Vultures are a symbol of their commitment to turn death into life and to continue living. The Vulture on the cover of Trench is named Clifford!

Map of Trench:

    The first symbol on the Trench album cover (looks like a flower kind of) is a map of all of the canyons in Trench. There is also a full map of the continent of Trench on the Dmaorg.info website.

||-//:

    A symbol of the Banditos. It is rebellious as it is an upside down neon gravestone. The gravestones resemble /-|. The extra lines two around the symbol are symbolic of a 'jumpsuit' something covering us and giving us support.

Good Day Dema:

    A live form TV show hosted by two bishops to spread Dema propaganda. It hosted the feature performance event.

Timeline

    Clancy spends 9 years in Dema. It is not explained how old he is or where he came from, and even he does not seem to be sure. Clancys bishop is Keons.

    Clancy hears rumours of ‘the old world’ and ‘the outside’ and is inspired to discover what is beyond the walls of Dema.

    During the annual assembly of the glorified Clancy and a group of like minded rebels attempt to escape at night with the hopes of meeting Banditos outside of the walls. Clancy is the only one to escape and he does not meet any Banditos.

    Clancy is eventually caught. Upon returning to Dema he tries to escape again, this time by somehow tricking Nico into driving him out of the City. He causes a distraction with the help of The Torchbearers projection while they are on the road and escapes into Trench. (This is the Heavydirtysoul MV)

    Clancy explores Trench for an unexplained amount of time and eventually runs into the Banditos as he walks down a river. He is suddenly approached by Nico, who ‘smears’ him. Clancy is inspired by the Banditos (Including Josh’s Character ‘The Torchbearer’) showering him with petals to resist the smear and escapes its grasp. Clancy is recaptured and dragged down the river for a while but eventually escapes again on his own. Clancy dissociates throughout this entire event and views it ‘out of body’ and does not recognise until later that it actually happened to him. (These are the events of the Jumpsuit MV)

    Clancy journeys Trench for another 5 days, not running into any more Banditos. Keons finds him one morning and takes him back to Dema.

    Clancy spends a few weeks in Dema before coordinating with the Banditos (likely by talking to The Torchbearer using his projection power) to escape again while the Bishops are busy with a vialism ceremony. He successfully escapes and the people of the Dema are inspired by the sight of the Banditos. (The events of the NATN MV)

    Clancy travels to a Bandito camp and makes rebellious music against Dema with the Banditos (This is the album ‘Trench’) The camp is attacked and Clancy is recaptured again. (The events of the Levitate MV)

    Clancy spends a few years in prison. During this time he becomes a bit of a legend in Dema for his letters and music.

    The Bishops harness his fame and force Clancy to write propaganda for them. This becomes ‘Scaled And Icy’. Clancy sneaks a hidden message, ‘Clancy Is Dead’ into the album title.

    Clancy performs in the Feature Performance Event on Good Day Dema but spends most of it daydreaming. The show is hosted by two bishops who use Psychokinesis to control the vessels of two corpses of the glorious gone which slowly rot and fall apart as the show goes on.

    Clancy performs at the annual assembly of the glorified on a submarine outside of the city for the VIPs of Dema. He is guarded by fake bishops to intimidate him. Unbeknownst to the other Bishops they have been betrayed. An escape plan is underway.

    Keons betrays the Bishops and uses Psychokinesis to posses the sea dragon Trash to destroy the submarine and free Clancy and The Torchbearer. (The events of the Saturday MV)

    The other bishops kill Keons. Clancy and The Torchbearer wash up on Voldsoy and discover creatures (Ned’s) that give Clancy the ability to use Psychokinesis through his antlers. Clancy uses these to control the vessel of Keons corpse and starts a fire in Dema. (The events of The Outside MV)

    Clancy and The Torchbearer wait on the island for rescue, intending to finally use this new power to truly fight back against Dema. We know at this stage anywhere from 5 to 10 years have passed since the NATN MV as we see the same kids who appear in that MV all grown up as Banditos. Clancy reveals that the Torchbearer had this all planned out the whole time. We know from Ned’s cozy cabin that he had been communicating with the Neds. Clancy making propaganda may have just been a long term plan coordinated by Keons and The Torchbearer to get him to island so he can learn psychokinesis.

    Clancy is now a weapon to be used in the upcoming final war. He gets ready to cross Paladin Strait to return to Dema, which he has now filled with embers of inspiration.

    Clancy and the Torchbearer return to Dema across the Paladin Strait on boat. While on the boat Clancy uses psychokineses to possess a glorious gone and teach anti-dema lessons inside the city. A rebellion starts to brew within the city. These rebels wear Red Tape. Clancy leaves the body and returns to his own as him and the Torchbearer arrive on the shores of Trench. (This is the Overcompensate MV).

    Clancy crosses Trench with some Banditos and The Torchbearer, and eventually he meets… The Torchbearer. Turns out the Torchbearer that had been with Clancy since the Saturday MV was just a projection to guide him. The real torchbearer had been leading the Banditos in Trench the whole time. (This is the Navigating MV)

    Clancy sharpens his Ned antlers into weapons and dons his red tape and mask. He is joint by an army of Banditos and his rebels and they prepare to march on Dema for the final battle.

    The Bishops seize vultures and use them to spy on the Bandito army. They use this info to prepare for the upcoming battle. The remaining Bishops (minus Nico) muster all their power to perform a mass seizing of the bodies of the glorious gone. They all rise from their neon gravestones, which they pull apart to use as weapons, and form an army of zombies controlled by the Bishops to protect Dema.

    The two armies clash outside of Dema while Clacny sneaks back into the city to find the Bishops. He climbs the tower and sneaks in, and quickly defeats the remaining Bishops (minus Nico). As they are defeated the zombies outside the walls also turn back into normal corpses and the army falls.

    Nico suddenly appears from out of a door and quickly levitates to Clancy, grabbing him by the neck.

    Clancy briefly succumbs to Nico while Nico speaks to him. However, he finds the strength to open his eyes and get ready for the final showdown against Blurryface. (This was all the Paladin Strait MV)

    It turns out that the Bishops knew of the plan against them and had been intercepting letters between Banditos. They issued a letter to the people of Dema before the Paladin Strait MV promising to keep them safe from the Banditos. They even destroyed Bandito tents and left letters with ‘Dear Clancy’ written on them in red in order to taunt him. (This occurred during the first leg of the Clancy Tour)

    In ‘The Line’ Clancy looks towards his upcoming final battle with Nico and wonders if he has gone to far and if he will be able to return to himself afterwards.

    Clancy is reveled to have intentions of becoming all powerful and ruling Dema after the final battle. This was shown in a letter before the final Clancy tour show.

Recommended Watching/Listening Order

Album Order:

    Vessel (apparently - ask Tyler lol)

    Blurryface

    Trench

    Scaled And Icy

    Clancy

Notably Lore Heavy Songs:

    Migraine (describes Voldsoy)

    Heavydirtysoul (kicks off the story proper)

    Stressed Out (first mention of Blurryface)

    Fairly Local (Blurryface speaks)

    Doubt (first mention of the bishops)

    Goner (Clancy fights Blurryface)

    Morph (We learn about Blurrys real name)

    Neon Gravestones (We learn about vialism)

    Nico And The Niners (We hear ‘Dema’ for the first time)

    Bandito (The theme of the Banditos)

    Leave The City (Clancy admits defeat)

    Choker (A broken Clancy signs himself to Dema to make propaganda)

    No Chances (The Bishops theme song, the best example of ‘Dema propaganda’. Clancy sneaks in a hidden ‘run away, run away’ message)

    Redecorate (Part of a Clancy letter is narrated)

    Overcompensate (We hear the name Clancy in a song for the first time)

    The Craving (The line ‘it’s the fear of the unknown that cripples every step we take’ it’s taken from a Clancy letter)

    Navigating (About Clancy navigating Trench)

    Paladin Strait (Clancy finds and begins to confront Nico)

    The Line (Clancy wonders if beating Nico will require him to cross the lien and wether or not he’ll be able to return)

Music Videos:

(side note - feel free to also watch the ‘I Am Clancy’ video for a simplified recap of the story up to Clancy)

    Heavydirtysoul

    Jumpsuit

    Nico and the Niners

    Levitate

    The Livestream (not a music video, but canon)

    Saturday

    The Outside

    Overcompensate

    Navigating

    Paladin Strait

Extra 'non-canon' Music Videos:

    These music videos aren't part of the canon but still give us ideas about the lore.

    Stressed Out (We see Blurryface posess Tyler in our real world)

    Fairly Local (Same as above)

    Heathens (could be seen as Clancy in a Dema prison)

    My Blood (features a vulture, and the idea of dissociation and seeing someone else living events that are actually happening to you) (foreshadows The Torchbearers power)

    Chlorine (introduces Ned)

    The Hype (a 'behind the scenes' MV acting as a metaphor for the bands career leading to the creation of Trench. Features Ned)

    Shy Away (could be seen as a propaganda video made by Clancy. Foreshadows Trash rescuing Clancy)

    Choker (the story of this music video is essentially a microcosm/representation of the Dema universe as a whole)

    Next Semester (contains the Clancy mask!)

    Backslide (contains the Clancy stole and references to Ned)

    Routines In The Nights (Has the bishops robes and references to FPE, as well as yellow flowers and the Clancy stole. We also briefly see Blurryface posess Tyler again)

    At The Risk Of Feeling Dumb (contains the Clancy stole)

    Oldies Station (Also has FPE references)
